doc/source/install/index.rst, before:

.. _install:

=================================
Installing Percona XtraDB Cluster
=================================

Install |PXC| on all hosts that you are planning to use as cluster nodes
and ensure that you have root access to the MySQL server on each one.

It is recommended to install |PXC| from official Percona software repositories
using the corresponding package manager for your system:

* :ref:`Debian or Ubuntu <apt>`
* :ref:`Red Hat or CentOS <yum>`

.. important::

   After installing |PXC| the ``mysql`` service is *stopped* but *enabled* so
   that it may start the next time the system is restarted. The service starts
   if the the grastate.dat file exists and the value of ``seqno`` is not **-1**.

   .. seealso::

      More information about Galera state information in :ref:`wsrep_file_index`
         :ref:`grastat.dat <galera-grastate-dat>`

Installation Alternatives
=========================

Percona also provides a generic tarball with all required files and binaries
for manual installation:

* :ref:`tarball`

If you want to build |PXC| from source, see :ref:`compile`.

If you want to run |PXC| using Docker, see :ref:`pxc.docker-container.running`.

.. _pxc-install-version-numbering-conventions:

Product version numbering
================================================================================

The version number in |pxc| releases contains the following components:

- The version of |PS| that the given |pxc| release is based on
- The sequence number which represents the |pxc| built.

For example, version number *8.0.18-9.3* means that this is the third |pxc|
build based on |PS| 8.0.18-9.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   Install on Debian or Ubuntu <apt>
   Install on Red Hat or CentOS <yum>
   Install from Binary Tarball <tarball>
   Compile from Source <compile>
   Run in a Docker container <docker>

Commit message:

PXC-3752 Tasks to convert to Netlify (5.7) (#1500)
modified:   Makefile
new file:   netlify.toml
new file:   requirements.txt
new file:   runtime.txt
modified:   source/add-node.rst
new file:   source/conf-netlify/conf.py
modified:   source/diagnostics/libcoredumper.rst
modified:   source/diagnostics/stacktrace.rst
modified:   source/howtos/crash-recovery.rst
modified:   source/howtos/proxysql-v2.rst
modified:   source/index.rst
deleted:    source/installation/post-installation.rst
modified:   source/management/data_at_rest_encryption.rst
deleted:    source/release-notes/Percona-Server-5.7.29-32.rst
deleted:    source/release-notes/Percona-Server-5.7.30-33.rst
modified:   source/security/encrypt-traffic.rst
modified:   source/wsrep-provider-index.rst

doc/source/install/index.rst, after:

.. _install:

=================================
Installing Percona XtraDB Cluster
=================================

Install Percona XtraDB Cluster on all hosts that you are planning to use as cluster nodes
and ensure that you have root access to the MySQL server on each one.

It is recommended to install Percona XtraDB Cluster from official Percona software repositories
using the corresponding package manager for your system:

* :ref:`Debian or Ubuntu <apt>`
* :ref:`Red Hat or CentOS <yum>`

.. important::

   After installing Percona XtraDB Cluster the ``mysql`` service is *stopped* but *enabled* so
   that it may start the next time the system is restarted. The service starts
   if the the grastate.dat file exists and the value of ``seqno`` is not **-1**.

   .. seealso::

      More information about Galera state information in :ref:`wsrep_file_index`
         :ref:`grastat.dat <galera-grastate-dat>`

Installation Alternatives
=========================

Percona also provides a generic tarball with all required files and binaries
for manual installation:

* :ref:`tarball`

If you want to build Percona XtraDB Cluster from source, see :ref:`compile`.

If you want to run Percona XtraDB Cluster using Docker, see :ref:`pxc.docker-container.running`.

.. _pxc-install-version-numbering-conventions:

Product version numbering
================================================================================

The version number in PXC releases contains the following components:

- The version of Percona Server for MySQL that the given PXC release is based on
- The sequence number which represents the PXC built.

For example, version number *8.0.18-9.3* means that this is the third PXC
build based on Percona Server for MySQL 8.0.18-9.

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   Install on Debian or Ubuntu <apt>
   Install on Red Hat or CentOS <yum>
   Install from Binary Tarball <tarball>
   Compile from Source <compile>
   Run in a Docker container <docker>
