doc/source/verify.rst, before:

.. _verify:

=====================
Verifying Replication
=====================

Use the following procedure to verify replication
by creating a new database on the second node,
creating a table for that database on the third node,
and adding some records to the table on the first node.

1. Create a new database on the second node:

   .. code-block:: sql

      mysql@pxc2> CREATE DATABASE percona;
      Query OK, 1 row affected (0.01 sec)

#. Create a table on the third node:

   .. code-block:: sql

      mysql@pxc3> USE percona;
      Database changed

      mysql@pxc3> CREATE TABLE example (node_id INT PRIMARY KEY, node_name VARCHAR(30));
      Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.05 sec)

#. Insert records on the first node:

   .. code-block:: sql

      mysql@pxc1> INSERT INTO percona.example VALUES (1, 'percona1');
      Query OK, 1 row affected (0.02 sec)

#. Retrieve rows from that table on the second node:

   .. code-block:: sql

      mysql@pxc2> SELECT * FROM percona.example;
      +---------+-----------+
      | node_id | node_name |
      +---------+-----------+
      |       1 | percona1  |
      +---------+-----------+
      1 row in set (0.00 sec)

Next Steps
==========

* Consider installing ProxySQL_ on client nodes
  for efficient workload management
  across the cluster without any changes
  to the applications that generate queries.
  This is the recommended high-availability solution for |PXC|.

  For more information, see :ref:`load_balancing_with_proxysql`.

* |PMM|_ is the best choice for managing and monitoring |PXC| performance.
  It provides visibility for the cluster
  and enables efficient troubleshooting.

Commit message:

PXC-3752 Tasks to convert to Netlify (5.7) (#1500)
modified:   Makefile
new file:   netlify.toml
new file:   requirements.txt
new file:   runtime.txt
modified:   source/add-node.rst
new file:   source/conf-netlify/conf.py
modified:   source/diagnostics/libcoredumper.rst
modified:   source/diagnostics/stacktrace.rst
modified:   source/howtos/crash-recovery.rst
modified:   source/howtos/proxysql-v2.rst
modified:   source/index.rst
deleted:    source/installation/post-installation.rst
modified:   source/management/data_at_rest_encryption.rst
deleted:    source/release-notes/Percona-Server-5.7.29-32.rst
deleted:    source/release-notes/Percona-Server-5.7.30-33.rst
modified:   source/security/encrypt-traffic.rst
modified:   source/wsrep-provider-index.rst

doc/source/verify.rst, after:

.. _verify:

=====================
Verifying Replication
=====================

Use the following procedure to verify replication
by creating a new database on the second node,
creating a table for that database on the third node,
and adding some records to the table on the first node.

1. Create a new database on the second node:

   .. code-block:: sql

      mysql@pxc2> CREATE DATABASE percona;
      Query OK, 1 row affected (0.01 sec)

#. Create a table on the third node:

   .. code-block:: sql

      mysql@pxc3> USE percona;
      Database changed

      mysql@pxc3> CREATE TABLE example (node_id INT PRIMARY KEY, node_name VARCHAR(30));
      Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.05 sec)

#. Insert records on the first node:

   .. code-block:: sql

      mysql@pxc1> INSERT INTO percona.example VALUES (1, 'percona1');
      Query OK, 1 row affected (0.02 sec)

#. Retrieve rows from that table on the second node:

   .. code-block:: sql

      mysql@pxc2> SELECT * FROM percona.example;
      +---------+-----------+
      | node_id | node_name |
      +---------+-----------+
      |       1 | percona1  |
      +---------+-----------+
      1 row in set (0.00 sec)

Next Steps
==========

* Consider installing ProxySQL_ on client nodes
  for efficient workload management
  across the cluster without any changes
  to the applications that generate queries.
  This is the recommended high-availability solution for Percona XtraDB Cluster.

  For more information, see :ref:`load_balancing_with_proxysql`.

* Percona Monitoring and Management_ is the best choice for managing and monitoring Percona XtraDB Cluster performance.
  It provides visibility for the cluster
  and enables efficient troubleshooting.
