.. _xtrabackup_sst:

====================================
Percona XtraBackup SST Configuration
====================================

Percona XtraBackup SST works in two stages:

1. First it identifies the type of data transfer
   based on the presence of :file:`xtrabackup_ist` file on the joiner node.

#. Then it starts data transfer. In case of SST, it empties the data directory except for some files
   (:file:`galera.cache`, :file:`sst_in_progress`, :file:`grastate.dat`)
   and then proceeds with SST.

   In case of IST, it proceeds as before.

SST Options
-----------

The following options specific to SST can be used in :file:`my.cnf`
under ``[sst]``.

.. note::

   * Non-integer options which have no default value are disabled if not set.

   * ``:Match: Yes`` implies that the option must match on donor and joiner nodes.

   * SST script reads :file:`my.cnf` when it runs
     on either donor or joiner node, not during ``mysqld`` startup.

   * SST options must be specified in the main :file:`my.cnf` file.

.. option:: streamfmt

     :Values: xbstream, tar
     :Default: xbstream
     :Match: Yes

Used to specify the Percona XtraBackup streaming format.
The recommended value is ``streamfmt=xbstream``.
Certain features are not available with ``tar``, for instance:
encryption, compression, parallel streaming, streaming incremental backups.
For more information about the ``xbstream`` format, see `The xbstream Binary
<https://www.percona.com/doc/percona-xtrabackup/2.4/xbstream/xbstream.html>`_.

.. option:: transferfmt

     :Values: ``socat``, ``nc``
     :Default: ``socat``
     :Match: Yes

Used to specify the data transfer format.
The recommended value is the default ``transferfmt=socat``
because it allows for socket options,
such as transfer buffer sizes.
For more information, see `socat(1)
<http://www.dest-unreach.org/socat/doc/socat.html>`_.

.. note:: Using ``transferfmt=nc`` does not support
   the SSL-based encryption mode 
   (value ``4`` for the :option:`encrypt` option).

.. option:: ssl-ca

     :Example: ssl-ca=/etc/ssl/certs/mycert.crt

Specifies the absolute path to the certificate authority (CA) file
for ``socat`` encryption based on OpenSSL.

.. option:: ssl-cert

     :Example: ssl-cert=/etc/ssl/certs/mycert.pem

Specifies the full path to the certificate file in the PEM format
for ``socat`` encryption based on OpenSSL.

.. note::

   For more information about ``ssl-ca`` and ``ssl-cert``,
   see http://www.dest-unreach.org/socat/doc/socat-openssltunnel.html.
   The ``ssl-ca`` is essentially a self-signed certificate in that example,
   and ``ssl-cert`` is the PEM file generated after concatenation of the key
   and the certificate generated earlier.
   The names of options were chosen to be compatible with ``socat``
   parameter names as well as with MySQL's SSL authentication.
   For testing you can also download certificates from
   `launchpad <https://bazaar.launchpad.net/~percona-core/percona-xtradb-cluster/5.5/files/head:/tests/certs/>`_.

.. note:: Irrespective of what is shown in the example,
   you can use the same .crt and .pem files on all nodes and it will work,
   since there is no server-client paradigm here,
   but rather a cluster with homogeneous nodes.

.. option:: ssl-key

   :Example: ssl-key=/etc/ssl/keys/key.pem

Used to specify the full path to the private key in PEM format
for socat encryption based on OpenSSL.

.. option:: encrypt

    :Values: 0, 4
    :Default: 4
    :Match: Yes

Enables SST encryption mode in Percona XtraBackup:

* Set ``encrypt=0`` to disable SST encryption.
* Set ``encrypt=4`` for SST encryption with SSL files generated by MySQL.
  This is the recommended value.

  Considering that you have all three necessary files::

   [sst]
   encrypt=4
   ssl-ca=ca.pem
   ssl-cert=server-cert.pem
   ssl-key=server-key.pem

For more information, see :ref:`encrypt-traffic`.

.. option:: sockopt

Used to specify key/value pairs of socket options, separated by commas,
for example::

 [sst]
 sockopt="retry=2,interval=3"

The previous example causes socat to try to connect three times
(initial attempt and two retries with a 3-second interval between attempts).

This option only applies when socat is used (``transferfmt=socat``).
For more information about socket options, see
`socat (1) <http://www.dest-unreach.org/socat/doc/socat.html>`_.

.. note:: You can also enable SSL based compression with :option:`sockopt`.
   This can be used instead of the Percona XtraBackup ``compress`` option.

.. option:: ncsockopt

Used to specify socket options for the ``netcat`` transfer format
(``transferfmt=nc``).

.. option:: progress

    :Values: 1, path/to/file

Used to specify where to write SST progress.
If set to ``1``, it writes to MySQL ``stderr``.
Alternatively, you can specify the full path to a file.
If this is a FIFO, it needs to exist and be open on reader end before itself,
otherwise ``wsrep_sst_xtrabackup`` will block indefinitely.

.. note:: Value of 0 is not valid.

.. option:: rebuild

    :Values: 0, 1
    :Default: 0

Used to enable rebuilding of index on joiner node.
This is independent of compaction, though compaction enables it.
Rebuild of indexes may be used as an optimization.

.. note:: :bug:`1192834` affects this option.

.. option:: time

    :Values: 0, 1
    :Default: 0

Enabling this option instruments key stages of backup and restore in SST.

.. option:: rlimit

    :Example: rlimit=128k

Used to set a a ratelimit in bytes.
Add a suffix (k, m, g, t) to specify units.
For example, ``128k`` is 128 kilobytes.
For more information, see `pv(1) <http://linux.die.net/man/1/pv>`_.

.. note:: Rate is limited on donor node.
   The rationale behind this is to not allow SST to saturate the donor's
   regular cluster operations or to limit the rate for other purposes.

.. option:: use_extra

    :Values: 0, 1
    :Default: 0

Used to force SST to use the thread pool's
`extra_port <http://www.percona.com/doc/percona-server/8.0/performance/threadpool.html#extra_port>`_.
Make sure that thread pool is enabled and the ``extra_port`` option is set
in :file:`my.cnf` before you enable this option.

.. option:: cpat

    :Default: ``'.*\.pem$\|.*init\.ok$\|.*galera\.cache$\|.*sst_in_progress$\|.*\.sst$\|.*gvwstate\.dat$\|.*grastate\.dat$\|.*\.err$\|.*\.log$\|.*RPM_UPGRADE_MARKER$\|.*RPM_UPGRADE_HISTORY$'``

Used to define the files
that need to be retained in the :term:`datadir` before running SST,
so that the state of the other node can be restored cleanly.
For example: ::

  [sst]
  cpat='.*galera\.cache$\|.*sst_in_progress$\|.*grastate\.dat$\|.*\.err$\|.*\.log$\|.*RPM_UPGRADE_MARKER$\|.*RPM_UPGRADE_HISTORY$\|.*\.xyz$'

.. note:: This option can only be used when :variable:`wsrep_sst_method`
   is set to ``xtrabackup-v2`` (which is the default value).

.. option:: compressor

    :Default: not set (disabled)
    :Example: compressor='gzip'

.. option:: decompressor

    :Default: not set (disabled)
    :Example: decompressor='gzip -dc'

Two previous options enable stream-based compression/decompression.
When these options are set, compression/decompression is performed on stream,
in contrast to performing decompression after streaming to disk,
involving additional I/O.
This saves a lot of I/O (up to twice less I/O on joiner node).

You can use any compression utility which works on stream:
``gzip``, ``pigz`` (which is recommended because it is multi-threaded), etc.
Compressor has to be set on donor node and decompressor on joiner node
(although you can set them vice-versa for configuration homogeneity,
it won't affect that particular SST).
To use XtraBackup based compression as before,
set ``compress`` under ``[xtrabackup]``.
Having both enabled won't cause any failure
(although you will be wasting CPU cycles).

.. option:: inno-backup-opts

.. option:: inno-apply-opts

.. option:: inno-move-opts

   :Default: Empty
   :Type: Quoted String

This group of options is used to pass XtraBackup options
for backup, apply, and move stages.
The SST script doesn't alter, tweak, or optimize these options.

.. note:: Although these options are related to XtraBackup SST,
   they cannot be specified in :file:`my.cnf`,
   because they are for passing innobackupex options.

.. option:: sst-initial-timeout

   :Default: 100
   :Unit: seconds

This option is used to configure initial timeout (in seconds)
to receive the first packet via SST.
This has been implemented, so that if the donor node fails
somewhere in the process, the joiner node will not hang up and wait forever.

By default, the joiner node will not wait for more than 100 seconds
to get a donor node.
The default should be sufficient, however, it is configurable,
so you can set it appropriately for your cluster.
To disable initial SST timeout, set ``sst-initial-timeout=0``.

.. note:: If you are using :variable:`wsrep_sst_donor`,
   and you want the joiner node to strictly wait for donors
   listed in the variable and not fall back
   (that is, without a terminating comma at the end),
   **and** there is a possibility of **all** nodes in that variable
   to be unavailable, disable initial SST timeout
   or set it to a higher value
   (maximum threshold that you want the joiner node to wait).
   You can also disable this option (or set it to a higher value)
   if you believe all other nodes in the cluster can potentially
   become unavailable at any point in time (mostly in small clusters)
   or there is a high network latency or network disturbance
   (which can cause donor selection to take longer than 100 seconds).

.. option:: tmpdir

   :Default: Empty
   :Example: /path/to/tmp/dir

This option specifies the location for storing the temporary file
on a donor node where the transaction log is stored
before streaming or copying it to a remote host.

.. Note:: This option can be used on
   joiner node to specify non-default location to receive
   temporary SST files. This location must be large enough to hold the
   contents of the entire database. If tmpdir is empty then default
   location datadir/.sst will be used.

The ``tmpdir`` option can be set in the following :file:`my.cnf` groups:

* ``[sst]`` is the primary location (others are ignored)
* ``[xtrabackup]`` is the secondary location
  (if not specified under ``[sst]``)
* ``[mysqld]`` is used if it is not specified in either of the above

:variable:`wsrep_debug`

Specifies whether additional debugging output for the database server error log
should be enabled.
Disabled by default.

This option can be set in the following :file:`my.cnf` groups:

* Under ``[mysqld]`` it enables debug logging for ``mysqld`` and the SST script
* Under ``[sst]`` it enables debug logging for the SST script only

.. option:: encrypt_threads

   :Default: ``4``

Specifies the number of threads that XtraBackup should use for encrypting data.
The value is passed using the ``--encrypt-threads`` option in XtraBackup.

This option affects only SST with XtraBackup
and should be specified under the ``[sst]`` group.

.. option:: backup_threads

   :Default: ``4``

Specifies the number of threads that XtraBackup should use to create backups.
See the ``--parallel`` option in XtraBackup.

This option affects only SST with XtraBackup
and should be specified under the ``[sst]`` group.

XtraBackup SST Dependencies
---------------------------

Each suppored version of Percona XtraDB Cluster is tested against a specific version of Percona XtraBackup:

* Percona XtraDB Cluster 5.6 requires Percona XtraBackup 2.3
* Percona XtraDB Cluster 5.7 requires Percona XtraBackup 2.4
* Percona XtraDB Cluster 8.0 requires Percona XtraBackup 8.0

Other combinations are not guaranteed to work.

The following are optional dependencies of Percona XtraDB Cluster
introduced by ``wsrep_sst_xtrabackup-v2``
(except for obvious and direct dependencies):

* ``qpress`` for decompression.
  It is an optional dependency of |Percona XtraBackup| 
  and it is available in our software repositories.

* ``my_print_defaults`` to extract values from :file:`my.cnf`.
  Provided by the server package.

* ``openbsd-netcat`` or ``socat`` for transfer.
  ``socat`` is a direct dependency of Percona XtraDB Cluster and it is the default.

* ``xbstream`` or ``tar`` for streaming. ``xbstream`` is the default.

* ``pv`` is required for :option:`progress` and :option:`rlimit`.

* ``mkfifo`` is required for :option:`progress`. Provided by ``coreutils``.

* ``mktemp`` is required. Provided by ``coreutils``.

* ``which`` is required.

XtraBackup-based Encryption
---------------------------

Settings related to |pxb-encryption| are no longer allowed in PXC |version|
when used for :term:`SST`. If it is detected that |pxb-encryption| is enabled, PXC
will produce an error.

The |pxb-encryption| is enabled when you specify any of the following options
under ``[xtrabackup]`` in :file:`my.cnf`:

    * ``encrypt``
    * ``encrypt-key``
    * ``encrypt-key-file``

Memory Allocation
-----------------

The amount of memory for XtraBackup
is defined by the ``--use-memory`` option.
You can pass it using the :option:`inno-apply-opts` option
under ``[sst]`` as follows::

 [sst]
 inno-apply-opts="--use-memory=500M"

If it is not specified,
the ``use-memory`` option under ``[xtrabackup]`` will be used::

 [xtrabackup]
 use-memory=32M

If neither of the above are specified,
the size of the InnoDB memory buffer will be used::

 [mysqld]
 innodb_buffer_pool_size=24M

.. include:: ../.res/replace.program.txt
.. include:: ../.res/replace.concept.txt
