doc/source/security/encrypt-traffic.rst, before:

.. _encrypt-traffic:

======================
Encrypting PXC Traffic
======================

There are two kinds of traffic in |PXC|:

1. Client-Server traffic (the one between client applications and cluster
   nodes),

2. Replication traffic, that includes :term:`SST`, :term:`IST`, write-set
   replication, and various service messages.

|PXC| supports encryption for all types of traffic. Replication traffic
encryption can be configured either automatically or manually.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

.. _encrypt-client-server:

Encrypting Client-Server Communication
======================================

|PXC| uses the underlying MySQL encryption mechanism
to secure communication between client applications and cluster nodes.

|MySQL| generates default key and certificate files and places them in the data
directory. You can override auto-generated files with manually created ones, as
described in the section :ref:`generate-keys-certs`.

The auto-generated files are suitable for automatic SSL configuration, but you
should use the same key and certificate files on all nodes.

Specify the following settings in the :file:`my.cnf` configuration file
for each node:

.. code-block:: text

   [mysqld]
   ssl-ca=/etc/mysql/certs/ca.pem
   ssl-cert=/etc/mysql/certs/server-cert.pem
   ssl-key=/etc/mysql/certs/server-key.pem
  
   [client]
   ssl-ca=/etc/mysql/certs/ca.pem
   ssl-cert=/etc/mysql/certs/client-cert.pem
   ssl-key=/etc/mysql/certs/client-key.pem

After it is restarted, the node uses these files to encrypt communication with
clients. MySQL clients require only the second part of the configuration
to communicate with cluster nodes.

|MySQL| generates the default key and certificate
files and places them in the data directory. You can either use them or generate
new certificates. For generation of new certificate please refer to
:ref:`generate-keys-certs` section.

.. _encrypt-replication-traffic:

Encrypting Replication Traffic
==============================

*Replication traffic* refers to the inter-node traffic which includes
the :term:`SST` traffic, :term:`IST` traffic, and replication traffic.

The traffic of each type is transferred via a different channel, and so it
is important to configure secure channels for all 3 variants to
completely secure the replication traffic.

|PXC| supports a single configuration option which helps to secure the complete
replication traffic, and is often referred to as :ref:`ssl-auto-conf`. You can
also configure the security of each channel by specifying independent
parameters.

.. _ssl-auto-conf:

SSL Automatic Configuration
===========================

The automatic configuration of the SSL encryption needs a key and certificate
files. MySQL generates a default key and certificate files and places them in
the data directory.

.. important::

   It is important that your cluster use the same SSL certificates on all nodes.
 
.. _enabling_encrypt-cluster-traffic:

Enabling :variable:`pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic`
------------------------------------------------

|PXC| includes the |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic| variable that
enables the configuration of the SSL encryption thereby encrypting
:term:`SST`, :term:`IST`, and replication traffic.

By default, |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic| is enabled thereby using a secured
channel for replication. This variable is not dynamic and so it cannot be changed
at runtime.

Enabled, |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic| has the effect of applying the following
settings: |opt.encrypt|, |opt.ssl-key|, |opt.ssl-ca|, |opt.ssl-cert|.

Setting ``pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic=ON`` has the effect of applying
   the following settings in the :file:`my.cnf` configuration file:

.. code-block:: text

   [mysqld]
   wsrep_provider_options=”socket.ssl_key=server-key.pem;socket.ssl_cert=server-cert.pem;socket.ssl_ca=ca.pem”

   [sst]
   encrypt=4
   ssl-key=server-key.pem
   ssl-ca=ca.pem
   ssl-cert=server-cert.pem

For :variable:`wsrep_provider_options`, only the mentioned options
are affected (``socket.ssl_key``, ``socket,ssl_cert``, and
``socket.ssl_ca``), the rest is not modified.

.. important:: Disabling |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic|

   The default value of |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic| helps improve the security
   of your system.

   When |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic| is not enabled, anyone with the
   access to your network can connect to any |pxc| node either as a
   client or as another node joining the cluster. This potentially
   lets them query your data or get a complete copy of it.

   If you must disable |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic|, you need
   to stop the cluster and update `[mysqld]` section of  the configuration file:
   ``pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic=OFF`` of each node. Then, restart the cluster.

The automatic configuration of the SSL encryption needs key and certificate files.
|MySQL| generates default key and certificate
files and places them in data directory. These auto-generated files are
suitable for automatic SSL configuration, but *you should use the same key and
certificate files on all nodes*. Also you can override auto-generated files with
manually created ones, as covered in :ref:`generate-keys-certs`.

The necessary key and certificate files are first searched at the ``ssl-ca``,
``ssl-cert``, and ``ssl-key`` options under ``[mysqld]``. If these options are
not set, the data directory is searched for :file:`ca.pem`,
:file:`server-cert.pem`, and :file:`server-key.pem` files.

.. note:: The ``[sst]`` section is not searched.

If all three files are found, they are used to configure encryption.
If any of the files is missing, a fatal error is generated.

.. _ssl-manual-conf:

SSL Manual Configuration
========================

If user wants to enable encryption for specific channel only or
use different certificates or other mix-match, then user can opt for
manual configuration. This helps to provide more flexibility to end-users.

To enable encryption manually, the location of the required key and certificate
files shoud be specified in the |PXC| configuration. If you do not have the
necessary files, see :ref:`generate-keys-certs`.

.. note:: Encryption settings are not dynamic.
   To enable it on a running cluster, you need to restart the entire cluster.

There are three aspects of |PXC| operation, where you can enable encryption:

* :ref:`encrypt-sst`

  This refers to :term:`SST` traffic during full data copy
  from one cluster node (donor) to the joining node (joiner).

* :ref:`Encrypting Replication Traffic <encrypt-replication>`
* :ref:`Encrypting IST Traffic <encrypt-replication>`

  This refers to all internal |PXC| communication,
  such as, write-set replication, :term:`IST`, and various service messages.

.. _encrypt-sst:

Encrypting SST Traffic
----------------------

This refers to full data transfer
that usually occurs when a new node (JOINER) joins the cluster
and receives data from an existing node (DONOR).

For more information, see :ref:`state_snapshot_transfer`.

.. note:: If ``keyring_file`` plugin is used, then SST encryption is mandatory:
          when copying encrypted data via SST, the keyring must be sent over
          with the files for decryption. In this case following options are to
          be set in :file:`my.cnf` on all nodes:

          .. code-block:: text

             early-plugin-load=keyring_file.so
             keyring-file-data=/path/to/keyring/file

          The cluster will not work if keyring configuration across nodes is
          different.

The only available SST method is ``xtrabackup-v2`` which uses |Percona XtraBackup|.

.. _xtrabackup:

xtrabackup
---------------

This is the only available SST method (the :variable:`wsrep_sst_method` is always set
to ``xtrabackup-v2``), which uses |PXB|_ to perform non-blocking transfer
of files. For more information, see :ref:`xtrabackup_sst`.

Encryption mode for this method is selected using the :option:`encrypt` option:

* ``encrypt=0`` is the default value, meaning that encryption is disabled.
* ``encrypt=4`` enables encryption based on key and certificate files
  generated with OpenSSL.
  For more information, see :ref:`generate-keys-certs`.

  To enable encryption for SST using XtraBackup,
  specify the location of the keys and certificate files
  in the each node's configuration under ``[sst]``:

  .. code-block:: text

     [sst]
     encrypt=4
     ssl-ca=/etc/mysql/certs/ca.pem
     ssl-cert=/etc/mysql/certs/server-cert.pem
     ssl-key=/etc/mysql/certs/server-key.pem

.. note:: SSL clients require DH parameters to be at least 1024 bits,
   due to the `logjam vulnerability
   <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logjam_(computer_security)>`_.
   However, versions of ``socat`` earlier than 1.7.3 use 512-bit parameters.
   If a :file:`dhparams.pem` file of required length
   is not found during SST in the data directory,
   it is generated with 2048 bits, which can take several minutes.
   To avoid this delay, create the :file:`dhparams.pem` file manually
   and place it in the data directory before joining the node to the cluster::

    openssl dhparam -out /path/to/datadir/dhparams.pem 2048

   For more information, see `this blog post <https://www.percona.com/blog/2017/04/23/percona-xtradb-cluster-dh-key-too-small-error-during-an-sst-using-ssl/>`_.

.. _mysqldump_sst:
.. _encrypt-replication:

Encrypting Replication/IST Traffic
----------------------------------

Replication traffic refers to the following:

* Write-set replication which is the main workload of |PXC|
  (replicating transactions that execute on one node to all other nodes).
* Incremental State Transfer (:term:`IST`) which
  is copying only missing transactions from DONOR to JOINER node.
* Service messages which ensure that all nodes are synchronized.

All this traffic is transferred via the same underlying communication channel
(``gcomm``). Securing this channel will ensure that :term:`IST` traffic,
write-set replication, and service messages are encrypted.
(For IST, a separate channel is configured using the same configuration
parameters, so 2 sections are described together).

To enable encryption for all these processes,
define the paths to the key, certificate and certificate authority files
using the following :ref:`wsrep provider options <wsrep_provider_index>`:

* :variable:`socket.ssl_ca`
* :variable:`socket.ssl_cert`
* :variable:`socket.ssl_key`

To set these options, use the :variable:`wsrep_provider_options` variable
in the configuration file::

 wsrep_provider_options="socket.ssl=yes;socket.ssl_ca=/etc/mysql/certs/ca.pem;socket.ssl_cert=/etc/mysql/certs/server-cert.pem;socket.ssl_key=/etc/mysql/certs/server-key.pem"

.. note:: You must use the same key and certificate files on all nodes,
   preferably those used for :ref:`encrypt-client-server`.

Check :upgrade-certificate: section on how to upgrade existing certificates.

.. _generate-keys-certs:

Generating Keys and Certificates Manually
=========================================

As mentioned above, |MySQL| generates default key and certificate
files and places them in the data directory. If you want to override these
certificates, the following new sets of files can be generated:

* *Certificate Authority (CA) key and certificate*
  to sign the server and client certificates.
* *Server key and certificate*
  to secure database server activity and write-set replication traffic.
* *Client key and certificate*
  to secure client communication traffic.

These files should be generated using `OpenSSL <https://www.openssl.org/>`_.

.. note:: The ``Common Name`` value
   used for the server and client keys and certificates
   must differ from the value used for the CA certificate.

.. _generate-ca-key-cert:

Generating CA Key and Certificate
---------------------------------

The Certificate Authority is used to verify the signature on certificates.

1. Generate the CA key file::

    $ openssl genrsa 2048 > ca-key.pem

#. Generate the CA certificate file::

    $ openssl req -new -x509 -nodes -days 3600
        -key ca-key.pem -out ca.pem

.. _generate-server-key-cert:

Generating Server Key and Certificate
-------------------------------------

1. Generate the server key file::

    $ openssl req -newkey rsa:2048 -days 3600 \
        -nodes -keyout server-key.pem -out server-req.pem

#. Remove the passphrase::

    $ openssl rsa -in server-key.pem -out server-key.pem

#. Generate the server certificate file::

    $ openssl x509 -req -in server-req.pem -days 3600 \
        -CA ca.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -set_serial 01 \
        -out server-cert.pem

.. _generate-client-key-cert:

Generating Client Key and Certificate
-------------------------------------

1. Generate the client key file::

    $ openssl req -newkey rsa:2048 -days 3600 \
        -nodes -keyout client-key.pem -out client-req.pem

#. Remove the passphrase::

    $ openssl rsa -in client-key.pem -out client-key.pem

#. Generate the client certificate file::

    $ openssl x509 -req -in client-req.pem -days 3600 \
        -CA ca.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -set_serial 01 \
        -out client-cert.pem

.. _verify-certs:

Verifying Certificates
----------------------

To verify that the server and client certificates
are correctly signed by the CA certificate,
run the following command::

 $ openssl verify -CAfile ca.pem server-cert.pem client-cert.pem

If the verification is successful, you should see the following output::

 server-cert.pem: OK
 client-cert.pem: OK

.. rubric:: Failed validation caused by matching CN

Sometimes, an SSL configuration may fail if the certificate and the CA files contain the same :abbr:`CN (SSL Certificate Common Name)`.

To check if this is the case run ``openssl`` command as follows and verify that the **CN** field differs for the *Subject* and *Issuer* lines.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ openssl x509 -in server-cert.pem -text -noout

.. admonition:: Incorrect values

   .. code-block:: text

      Certificate:
      Data:
      Version: 1 (0x0)
      Serial Number: 1 (0x1)
      Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
      Issuer: CN=www.percona.com, O=Database Performance., C=US
      ...
      Subject: CN=www.percona.com, O=Database Performance., C=AU
      ...

To obtain a more compact output run ``openssl`` specifying `-subject` and `-issuer` parameters:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ openssl x509 -in server-cert.pem -subject -issuer -noout

.. admonition:: Output

   .. code-block:: text

      subject= /CN=www.percona.com/O=Database Performance./C=AU
      issuer= /CN=www.percona.com/O=Database Performance./C=US

Deploying Keys and Certificates
-------------------------------

Use a secure method (for example, ``scp`` or ``sftp``)
to send the key and certificate files to each node.
Place them under the :file:`/etc/mysql/certs/` directory
or similar location where you can find them later.

.. note:: Make sure that this directory is protected with proper permissions.
   Most likely, you only want to give read permissions
   to the user running ``mysqld``.

The following files are required:

* Certificate Authority certificate file (``ca.pem``)

  This file is used to verify signatures.

* Server key and certificate files (``server-key.pem`` and ``server-cert.pem``)

  These files are used to secure database server activity
  and write-set replication traffic.

* Client key and certificate files (``client-key.pem`` and ``client-cert.pem``)

  These files are required only if the node should act as a MySQL client.
  For example, if you are planning to perform SST using ``mysqldump``.

.. note:: :ref:`upgrade-certs` subsection covers the details on upgrading
   certificates, if necessary.

.. _upgrade-certs:

Upgrading Certificates
----------------------

The following procedure shows how to upgrade certificates
used for securing replication traffic when there are two nodes in the cluster.

1. Restart the first node with the :variable:`socket.ssl_ca` option
   set to a combination of the the old and new certificates in a single file.

   For example, you can merge contents of ``old-ca.pem``
   and ``new-ca.pem`` into ``upgrade-ca.pem`` as follows:

   .. code-block:: bash

      cat old-ca.pem > upgrade-ca.pem && \
      cat new-ca.pem >> upgrade-ca.pem

   Set the :variable:`wsrep_provider_options` variable as follows:

   .. code-block:: text

      wsrep_provider_options="socket.ssl=yes;socket.ssl_ca=/etc/mysql/certs/upgrade-ca.pem;socket.ssl_cert=/etc/mysql/certs/old-cert.pem;socket.ssl_key=/etc/mysql/certs/old-key.pem"

#. Restart the second node with the :variable:`socket.ssl_ca`,
   :variable:`socket.ssl_cert`, and :variable:`socket.ssl_key` options
   set to the corresponding new certificate files.

   .. code-block:: text

      wsrep_provider_options="socket.ssl=yes;socket.ssl_ca=/etc/mysql/certs/new-ca.pem;socket.ssl_cert=/etc/mysql/certs/new-cert.pem;socket.ssl_key=/etc/mysql/certs/new-key.pem"

#. Restart the first node with the new certificate files,
   as in the previous step.

#. You can remove the old certificate files.

.. include:: ../.res/replace.opt.txt

Commit message:

PXC-3752 Tasks to convert to Netlify (5.7) (#1500)
modified:   Makefile
new file:   netlify.toml
new file:   requirements.txt
new file:   runtime.txt
modified:   source/add-node.rst
new file:   source/conf-netlify/conf.py
modified:   source/diagnostics/libcoredumper.rst
modified:   source/diagnostics/stacktrace.rst
modified:   source/howtos/crash-recovery.rst
modified:   source/howtos/proxysql-v2.rst
modified:   source/index.rst
deleted:    source/installation/post-installation.rst
modified:   source/management/data_at_rest_encryption.rst
deleted:    source/release-notes/Percona-Server-5.7.29-32.rst
deleted:    source/release-notes/Percona-Server-5.7.30-33.rst
modified:   source/security/encrypt-traffic.rst
modified:   source/wsrep-provider-index.rst

doc/source/security/encrypt-traffic.rst, after:

.. _encrypt-traffic:

======================
Encrypting PXC Traffic
======================

There are two kinds of traffic in Percona XtraDB Cluster:

1. Client-Server traffic (the one between client applications and cluster
   nodes),

2. Replication traffic, that includes :term:`SST`, :term:`IST`, write-set
   replication, and various service messages.

Percona XtraDB Cluster supports encryption for all types of traffic. Replication traffic
encryption can be configured either automatically or manually.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

.. _encrypt-client-server:

Encrypting Client-Server Communication
======================================

Percona XtraDB Cluster uses the underlying MySQL encryption mechanism
to secure communication between client applications and cluster nodes.

MySQL generates default key and certificate files and places them in the data
directory. You can override auto-generated files with manually created ones, as
described in the section :ref:`generate-keys-certs`.

The auto-generated files are suitable for automatic SSL configuration, but you
should use the same key and certificate files on all nodes.

Specify the following settings in the :file:`my.cnf` configuration file
for each node:

.. code-block:: text

   [mysqld]
   ssl-ca=/etc/mysql/certs/ca.pem
   ssl-cert=/etc/mysql/certs/server-cert.pem
   ssl-key=/etc/mysql/certs/server-key.pem

   [client]
   ssl-ca=/etc/mysql/certs/ca.pem
   ssl-cert=/etc/mysql/certs/client-cert.pem
   ssl-key=/etc/mysql/certs/client-key.pem

After it is restarted, the node uses these files to encrypt communication with
clients. MySQL clients require only the second part of the configuration
to communicate with cluster nodes.

MySQL generates the default key and certificate
files and places them in the data directory. You can either use them or generate
new certificates. For generation of new certificate please refer to
:ref:`generate-keys-certs` section.

.. _encrypt-replication-traffic:

Encrypting Replication Traffic
==============================

*Replication traffic* refers to the inter-node traffic which includes
the :term:`SST` traffic, :term:`IST` traffic, and replication traffic.

The traffic of each type is transferred via a different channel, and so it
is important to configure secure channels for all 3 variants to
completely secure the replication traffic.

Percona XtraDB Cluster supports a single configuration option which helps to secure the complete
replication traffic, and is often referred to as :ref:`ssl-auto-conf`. You can
also configure the security of each channel by specifying independent
parameters.

.. _ssl-auto-conf:

SSL Automatic Configuration
===========================

The automatic configuration of the SSL encryption needs a key and certificate
files. MySQL generates a default key and certificate files and places them in
the data directory.

.. important::

   It is important that your cluster use the same SSL certificates on all nodes.

.. _enabling_encrypt-cluster-traffic:

Enabling :variable:`pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic`
------------------------------------------------

Percona XtraDB Cluster includes the |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic| variable that
enables the configuration of the SSL encryption thereby encrypting
:term:`SST`, :term:`IST`, and replication traffic.

By default, |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic| is enabled thereby using a secured
channel for replication. This variable is not dynamic and so it cannot be changed
at runtime.

Enabled, |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic| has the effect of applying the following
settings: |opt.encrypt|, |opt.ssl-key|, |opt.ssl-ca|, |opt.ssl-cert|.

Setting ``pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic=ON`` has the effect of applying
   the following settings in the :file:`my.cnf` configuration file:

.. code-block:: text

   [mysqld]
   wsrep_provider_options=”socket.ssl_key=server-key.pem;socket.ssl_cert=server-cert.pem;socket.ssl_ca=ca.pem”

   [sst]
   encrypt=4
   ssl-key=server-key.pem
   ssl-ca=ca.pem
   ssl-cert=server-cert.pem

For :variable:`wsrep_provider_options`, only the mentioned options
are affected (``socket.ssl_key``, ``socket,ssl_cert``, and
``socket.ssl_ca``), the rest is not modified.

.. important:: Disabling |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic|

   The default value of |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic| helps improve the security
   of your system.

   When |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic| is not enabled, anyone with the
   access to your network can connect to any PXC node either as a
   client or as another node joining the cluster. This potentially
   lets them query your data or get a complete copy of it.

   If you must disable |pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic|, you need
   to stop the cluster and update `[mysqld]` section of  the configuration file:
   ``pxc-encrypt-cluster-traffic=OFF`` of each node. Then, restart the cluster.

The automatic configuration of the SSL encryption needs key and certificate files.
MySQL generates default key and certificate
files and places them in data directory. These auto-generated files are
suitable for automatic SSL configuration, but *you should use the same key and
certificate files on all nodes*. Also you can override auto-generated files with
manually created ones, as covered in :ref:`generate-keys-certs`.

The necessary key and certificate files are first searched at the ``ssl-ca``,
``ssl-cert``, and ``ssl-key`` options under ``[mysqld]``. If these options are
not set, the data directory is searched for :file:`ca.pem`,
:file:`server-cert.pem`, and :file:`server-key.pem` files.

.. note:: The ``[sst]`` section is not searched.

If all three files are found, they are used to configure encryption.
If any of the files is missing, a fatal error is generated.

.. _ssl-manual-conf:

SSL Manual Configuration
========================

If user wants to enable encryption for specific channel only or
use different certificates or other mix-match, then user can opt for
manual configuration. This helps to provide more flexibility to end-users.

To enable encryption manually, the location of the required key and certificate
files shoud be specified in the Percona XtraDB Cluster configuration. If you do not have the
necessary files, see :ref:`generate-keys-certs`.

.. note:: Encryption settings are not dynamic.
   To enable it on a running cluster, you need to restart the entire cluster.

There are three aspects of Percona XtraDB Cluster operation, where you can enable encryption:

* :ref:`encrypt-sst`

  This refers to :term:`SST` traffic during full data copy
  from one cluster node (donor) to the joining node (joiner).

* :ref:`Encrypting Replication Traffic <encrypt-replication>`
* :ref:`Encrypting IST Traffic <encrypt-replication>`

  This refers to all internal Percona XtraDB Cluster communication,
  such as, write-set replication, :term:`IST`, and various service messages.

.. _encrypt-sst:

Encrypting SST Traffic
----------------------

This refers to full data transfer
that usually occurs when a new node (JOINER) joins the cluster
and receives data from an existing node (DONOR).

For more information, see :ref:`state_snapshot_transfer`.

.. note:: If ``keyring_file`` plugin is used, then SST encryption is mandatory:
          when copying encrypted data via SST, the keyring must be sent over
          with the files for decryption. In this case following options are to
          be set in :file:`my.cnf` on all nodes:

          .. code-block:: text

             early-plugin-load=keyring_file.so
             keyring-file-data=/path/to/keyring/file

          The cluster will not work if keyring configuration across nodes is
          different.

The only available SST method is ``xtrabackup-v2`` which uses |Percona XtraBackup|.

.. _xtrabackup:

xtrabackup
---------------

This is the only available SST method (the :variable:`wsrep_sst_method` is always set
to ``xtrabackup-v2``), which uses Percona XtraBackup_ to perform non-blocking transfer
of files. For more information, see :ref:`xtrabackup_sst`.

Encryption mode for this method is selected using the :option:`encrypt` option:

* ``encrypt=0`` is the default value, meaning that encryption is disabled.
* ``encrypt=4`` enables encryption based on key and certificate files
  generated with OpenSSL.
  For more information, see :ref:`generate-keys-certs`.

  To enable encryption for SST using XtraBackup,
  specify the location of the keys and certificate files
  in the each node's configuration under ``[sst]``:

  .. code-block:: text

     [sst]
     encrypt=4
     ssl-ca=/etc/mysql/certs/ca.pem
     ssl-cert=/etc/mysql/certs/server-cert.pem
     ssl-key=/etc/mysql/certs/server-key.pem

.. note:: SSL clients require DH parameters to be at least 1024 bits,
   due to the `logjam vulnerability
   <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logjam_(computer_security)>`_.
   However, versions of ``socat`` earlier than 1.7.3 use 512-bit parameters.
   If a :file:`dhparams.pem` file of required length
   is not found during SST in the data directory,
   it is generated with 2048 bits, which can take several minutes.
   To avoid this delay, create the :file:`dhparams.pem` file manually
   and place it in the data directory before joining the node to the cluster::

    openssl dhparam -out /path/to/datadir/dhparams.pem 2048

   For more information, see `this blog post <https://www.percona.com/blog/2017/04/23/percona-xtradb-cluster-dh-key-too-small-error-during-an-sst-using-ssl/>`_.

.. _mysqldump_sst:
.. _encrypt-replication:

Encrypting Replication/IST Traffic
----------------------------------

Replication traffic refers to the following:

* Write-set replication which is the main workload of Percona XtraDB Cluster
  (replicating transactions that execute on one node to all other nodes).
* Incremental State Transfer (:term:`IST`) which
  is copying only missing transactions from DONOR to JOINER node.
* Service messages which ensure that all nodes are synchronized.

All this traffic is transferred via the same underlying communication channel
(``gcomm``). Securing this channel will ensure that :term:`IST` traffic,
write-set replication, and service messages are encrypted.
(For IST, a separate channel is configured using the same configuration
parameters, so 2 sections are described together).

To enable encryption for all these processes,
define the paths to the key, certificate and certificate authority files
using the following :ref:`wsrep provider options <wsrep_provider_index>`:

* :variable:`socket.ssl_ca`
* :variable:`socket.ssl_cert`
* :variable:`socket.ssl_key`

To set these options, use the :variable:`wsrep_provider_options` variable
in the configuration file::

 wsrep_provider_options="socket.ssl=yes;socket.ssl_ca=/etc/mysql/certs/ca.pem;socket.ssl_cert=/etc/mysql/certs/server-cert.pem;socket.ssl_key=/etc/mysql/certs/server-key.pem"

.. note:: You must use the same key and certificate files on all nodes,
   preferably those used for :ref:`encrypt-client-server`.

Check :upgrade-certificate: section on how to upgrade existing certificates.

.. _generate-keys-certs:

Generating Keys and Certificates Manually
=========================================

As mentioned above, MySQL generates default key and certificate
files and places them in the data directory. If you want to override these
certificates, the following new sets of files can be generated:

* *Certificate Authority (CA) key and certificate*
  to sign the server and client certificates.
* *Server key and certificate*
  to secure database server activity and write-set replication traffic.
* *Client key and certificate*
  to secure client communication traffic.

These files should be generated using `OpenSSL <https://www.openssl.org/>`_.

.. note:: The ``Common Name`` value
   used for the server and client keys and certificates
   must differ from the value used for the CA certificate.

.. _generate-ca-key-cert:

Generating CA Key and Certificate
---------------------------------

The Certificate Authority is used to verify the signature on certificates.

1. Generate the CA key file::

    $ openssl genrsa 2048 > ca-key.pem

#. Generate the CA certificate file::

    $ openssl req -new -x509 -nodes -days 3600
        -key ca-key.pem -out ca.pem

.. _generate-server-key-cert:

Generating Server Key and Certificate
-------------------------------------

1. Generate the server key file::

    $ openssl req -newkey rsa:2048 -days 3600 \
        -nodes -keyout server-key.pem -out server-req.pem

#. Remove the passphrase::

    $ openssl rsa -in server-key.pem -out server-key.pem

#. Generate the server certificate file::

    $ openssl x509 -req -in server-req.pem -days 3600 \
        -CA ca.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -set_serial 01 \
        -out server-cert.pem

.. _generate-client-key-cert:

Generating Client Key and Certificate
-------------------------------------

1. Generate the client key file::

    $ openssl req -newkey rsa:2048 -days 3600 \
        -nodes -keyout client-key.pem -out client-req.pem

#. Remove the passphrase::

    $ openssl rsa -in client-key.pem -out client-key.pem

#. Generate the client certificate file::

    $ openssl x509 -req -in client-req.pem -days 3600 \
        -CA ca.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -set_serial 01 \
        -out client-cert.pem

.. _verify-certs:

Verifying Certificates
----------------------

To verify that the server and client certificates
are correctly signed by the CA certificate,
run the following command::

 $ openssl verify -CAfile ca.pem server-cert.pem client-cert.pem

If the verification is successful, you should see the following output::

 server-cert.pem: OK
 client-cert.pem: OK

.. rubric:: Failed validation caused by matching CN

Sometimes, an SSL configuration may fail if the certificate and the CA files contain the same :abbr:`CN (SSL Certificate Common Name)`.

To check if this is the case run ``openssl`` command as follows and verify that the **CN** field differs for the *Subject* and *Issuer* lines.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ openssl x509 -in server-cert.pem -text -noout

.. admonition:: Incorrect values

   .. code-block:: text

      Certificate:
      Data:
      Version: 1 (0x0)
      Serial Number: 1 (0x1)
      Signature Algorithm: sha256WithRSAEncryption
      Issuer: CN=www.percona.com, O=Database Performance., C=US
      ...
      Subject: CN=www.percona.com, O=Database Performance., C=AU
      ...

To obtain a more compact output run ``openssl`` specifying `-subject` and `-issuer` parameters:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ openssl x509 -in server-cert.pem -subject -issuer -noout

.. admonition:: Output

   .. code-block:: text

      subject= /CN=www.percona.com/O=Database Performance./C=AU
      issuer= /CN=www.percona.com/O=Database Performance./C=US

Deploying Keys and Certificates
-------------------------------

Use a secure method (for example, ``scp`` or ``sftp``)
to send the key and certificate files to each node.
Place them under the :file:`/etc/mysql/certs/` directory
or similar location where you can find them later.

.. note:: Make sure that this directory is protected with proper permissions.
   Most likely, you only want to give read permissions
   to the user running ``mysqld``.

The following files are required:

* Certificate Authority certificate file (``ca.pem``)

  This file is used to verify signatures.

* Server key and certificate files (``server-key.pem`` and ``server-cert.pem``)

  These files are used to secure database server activity
  and write-set replication traffic.

* Client key and certificate files (``client-key.pem`` and ``client-cert.pem``)

  These files are required only if the node should act as a MySQL client.
  For example, if you are planning to perform SST using ``mysqldump``.

.. note:: :ref:`upgrade-certs` subsection covers the details on upgrading
   certificates, if necessary.

.. _upgrade-certs:

Upgrading Certificates
----------------------

The following procedure shows how to upgrade certificates
used for securing replication traffic when there are two nodes in the cluster.

1. Restart the first node with the :variable:`socket.ssl_ca` option
   set to a combination of the the old and new certificates in a single file.

   For example, you can merge contents of ``old-ca.pem``
   and ``new-ca.pem`` into ``upgrade-ca.pem`` as follows:

   .. code-block:: bash

      cat old-ca.pem > upgrade-ca.pem && \
      cat new-ca.pem >> upgrade-ca.pem

   Set the :variable:`wsrep_provider_options` variable as follows:

   .. code-block:: text

      wsrep_provider_options="socket.ssl=yes;socket.ssl_ca=/etc/mysql/certs/upgrade-ca.pem;socket.ssl_cert=/etc/mysql/certs/old-cert.pem;socket.ssl_key=/etc/mysql/certs/old-key.pem"

#. Restart the second node with the :variable:`socket.ssl_ca`,
   :variable:`socket.ssl_cert`, and :variable:`socket.ssl_key` options
   set to the corresponding new certificate files.

   .. code-block:: text

      wsrep_provider_options="socket.ssl=yes;socket.ssl_ca=/etc/mysql/certs/new-ca.pem;socket.ssl_cert=/etc/mysql/certs/new-cert.pem;socket.ssl_key=/etc/mysql/certs/new-key.pem"

#. Restart the first node with the new certificate files,
   as in the previous step.

#. You can remove the old certificate files.

.. include:: ../.res/replace.opt.txt
