doc/source/howtos/centos_howto.rst, before:

.. _centos_howto:

============================================
Configuring Percona XtraDB Cluster on CentOS
============================================

This tutorial describes how to install and configure three |PXC| nodes
on CentOS 7 servers, using the packages from Percona repositories.

* Node 1

  * Host name: ``percona1``
  * IP address: ``192.168.70.71``

* Node 2

  * Host name: ``percona2``
  * IP address: ``192.168.70.72``

* Node 3

  * Host name: ``percona3``
  * IP address: ``192.168.70.73``

Prerequisites
=============

The procedure described in this tutorial requires the following:

* All three nodes have CentOS 7 installed.
* The firewall on all nodes is configured to allow connecting
  to ports 3306, 4444, 4567 and 4568.
* SELinux on all nodes is disabled.

.. include:: ../.res/text/admonition-automatic-user.txt

Step 1. Installing PXC
======================

Install |PXC| on all three nodes as described in :ref:`yum`.

Step 2. Configuring the first node
==================================

Individual nodes should be configured to be able to bootstrap the cluster.
For more information about bootstrapping the cluster, see :ref:`bootstrap`.

1. Make sure that the configuration file :file:`/etc/my.cnf`
   on the first node (``percona1``) contains the following::

      [mysqld]

      datadir=/var/lib/mysql
      user=mysql

      # Path to Galera library
      wsrep_provider=/usr/lib64/galera4/libgalera_smm.so

      # Cluster connection URL contains the IPs of node#1, node#2 and node#3
      wsrep_cluster_address=gcomm://192.168.70.71,192.168.70.72,192.168.70.73

      # In order for Galera to work correctly binlog format should be ROW
      binlog_format=ROW

      # Using the MyISAM storage engine is not recommended.
      default_storage_engine=InnoDB

      # This InnoDB autoincrement locking mode is a requirement for Galera
      innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=2

      # Node 1 address
      wsrep_node_address=192.168.70.71

      # SST method
      wsrep_sst_method=xtrabackup-v2

      # Cluster name
      wsrep_cluster_name=my_centos_cluster

#. Start the first node with the following command:

   .. code-block:: text

      [root@percona1 ~]#  systemctl start mysql@bootstrap.service

   The previous command will start the cluster
   with initial :variable:`wsrep_cluster_address` variable
   set to ``gcomm://``.
   If the node or |MySQL| are restarted later,
   there will be no need to change the configuration file.

#. After the first node has been started,
   cluster status can be checked with the following command:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql> show status like 'wsrep%';
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | Variable_name              | Value                                |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | wsrep_local_state_uuid     | c2883338-834d-11e2-0800-03c9c68e41ec |
      ...
      | wsrep_local_state          | 4                                    |
      | wsrep_local_state_comment  | Synced                               |
      ...
      | wsrep_cluster_size         | 1                                    |
      | wsrep_cluster_status       | Primary                              |
      | wsrep_connected            | ON                                   |
      ...
      | wsrep_ready                | ON                                   |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      75 rows in set (0.00 sec)

   This output shows that the cluster has been successfully bootstrapped.

   Copy the automatically generated temporary password for the superuser account:

   .. code-block:: bash

      $ sudo grep 'temporary password' /var/log/mysqld.log

   Use this password to log in as root:

   .. code-block:: bash

      $ mysql -u root -p

   Change the password for the superuser account and log out. For example:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql> ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'r00tP@$$';
      Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

Step 3. Configuring the second node
===================================

1. Make sure that the configuration file :file:`/etc/my.cnf`
   on the second node (``percona2``) contains the following::

      [mysqld]

      datadir=/var/lib/mysql
      user=mysql

      # Path to Galera library
      wsrep_provider=/usr/lib64/galera4/libgalera_smm.so

      # Cluster connection URL contains IPs of node#1, node#2 and node#3
      wsrep_cluster_address=gcomm://192.168.70.71,192.168.70.72,192.168.70.73

      # In order for Galera to work correctly binlog format should be ROW
      binlog_format=ROW

      # Using the MyISAM storage engine is not recommended
      default_storage_engine=InnoDB

      # This InnoDB auto_increment locking mode is a requirement for Galera
      innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=2

      # Node 2 address
      wsrep_node_address=192.168.70.72

      # Cluster name
      wsrep_cluster_name=my_centos_cluster

      # SST method
      wsrep_sst_method=xtrabackup-v2

#. Start the second node with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

      [root@percona2 ~]# systemctl start mysql

#. After the server has been started,
   it should receive |SST| automatically.
   Cluster status can be checked on both nodes.
   The following is an example of status from the second node (``percona2``):

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql> show status like 'wsrep%';
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | Variable_name              | Value                                |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | wsrep_local_state_uuid     | c2883338-834d-11e2-0800-03c9c68e41ec |
      ...
      | wsrep_local_state          | 4                                    |
      | wsrep_local_state_comment  | Synced                               |
      ...
      | wsrep_cluster_size         | 2                                    |
      | wsrep_cluster_status       | Primary                              |
      | wsrep_connected            | ON                                   |
      ...
      | wsrep_ready                | ON                                   |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      40 rows in set (0.01 sec)

   This output shows that the new node has been successfully added to the cluster.

Step 4. Configuring the third node
==================================

1. Make sure that the MySQL configuration file :file:`/etc/my.cnf`
   on the third node (``percona3``) contains the following: ::

      [mysqld]

      datadir=/var/lib/mysql
      user=mysql

      # Path to Galera library
      wsrep_provider=/usr/lib64/galera4/libgalera_smm.so

      # Cluster connection URL contains IPs of node#1, node#2 and node#3
      wsrep_cluster_address=gcomm://192.168.70.71,192.168.70.72,192.168.70.73

      # In order for Galera to work correctly binlog format should be ROW
      binlog_format=ROW

      # Using the MyISAM storage engine is not recommended
      default_storage_engine=InnoDB

      # This InnoDB auto_increment locking mode is a requirement for Galera
      innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=2

      # Node #3 address
      wsrep_node_address=192.168.70.73

      # Cluster name
      wsrep_cluster_name=my_centos_cluster

      # SST method
      wsrep_sst_method=xtrabackup-v2

#. Start the third node with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

      [root@percona3 ~]# systemctl start mysql

#. After the server has been started,
   it should receive SST automatically.
   Cluster status can be checked on all three nodes.
   The following is an example of status from the third node (``percona3``):

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql> show status like 'wsrep%';
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | Variable_name              | Value                                |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | wsrep_local_state_uuid     | c2883338-834d-11e2-0800-03c9c68e41ec |
      ...
      | wsrep_local_state          | 4                                    |
      | wsrep_local_state_comment  | Synced                               |
      ...
      | wsrep_cluster_size         | 3                                    |
      | wsrep_cluster_status       | Primary                              |
      | wsrep_connected            | ON                                   |
      ...
      | wsrep_ready                | ON                                   |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      40 rows in set (0.01 sec)

   This output confirms that the third node has joined the cluster.

Testing replication
===================

To test replication, lets create a new database on second node,
create a table for that database on the third node,
and add some records to the table on the first node.

1. Create a new database on the second node:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql@percona2> CREATE DATABASE percona;
      Query OK, 1 row affected (0.01 sec)

#. Create a table on the third node:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql@percona3> USE percona;
      Database changed

      mysql@percona3> CREATE TABLE example (node_id INT PRIMARY KEY, node_name VARCHAR(30));
      Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.05 sec)

#. Insert records on the first node:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql@percona1> INSERT INTO percona.example VALUES (1, 'percona1');
      Query OK, 1 row affected (0.02 sec)

#. Retrieve all the rows from that table on the second node:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql@percona2> SELECT * FROM percona.example;
      +---------+-----------+
      | node_id | node_name |
      +---------+-----------+
      |       1 | percona1  |
      +---------+-----------+
      1 row in set (0.00 sec)

This simple procedure should ensure that all nodes in the cluster
are synchronized and working as intended.

.. include:: ../.res/replace.txt
.. include:: ../.res/replace.opt.txt

Commit message:

PXC-3752 Tasks to convert to Netlify (5.7) (#1500)
modified:   Makefile
new file:   netlify.toml
new file:   requirements.txt
new file:   runtime.txt
modified:   source/add-node.rst
new file:   source/conf-netlify/conf.py
modified:   source/diagnostics/libcoredumper.rst
modified:   source/diagnostics/stacktrace.rst
modified:   source/howtos/crash-recovery.rst
modified:   source/howtos/proxysql-v2.rst
modified:   source/index.rst
deleted:    source/installation/post-installation.rst
modified:   source/management/data_at_rest_encryption.rst
deleted:    source/release-notes/Percona-Server-5.7.29-32.rst
deleted:    source/release-notes/Percona-Server-5.7.30-33.rst
modified:   source/security/encrypt-traffic.rst
modified:   source/wsrep-provider-index.rst

doc/source/howtos/centos_howto.rst, after:

.. _centos_howto:

============================================
Configuring Percona XtraDB Cluster on CentOS
============================================

This tutorial describes how to install and configure three Percona XtraDB Cluster nodes
on CentOS 7 servers, using the packages from Percona repositories.

* Node 1

  * Host name: ``percona1``
  * IP address: ``192.168.70.71``

* Node 2

  * Host name: ``percona2``
  * IP address: ``192.168.70.72``

* Node 3

  * Host name: ``percona3``
  * IP address: ``192.168.70.73``

Prerequisites
=============

The procedure described in this tutorial requires the following:

* All three nodes have CentOS 7 installed.
* The firewall on all nodes is configured to allow connecting
  to ports 3306, 4444, 4567 and 4568.
* SELinux on all nodes is disabled.

.. include:: ../.res/text/admonition-automatic-user.txt

Step 1. Installing PXC
======================

Install Percona XtraDB Cluster on all three nodes as described in :ref:`yum`.

Step 2. Configuring the first node
==================================

Individual nodes should be configured to be able to bootstrap the cluster.
For more information about bootstrapping the cluster, see :ref:`bootstrap`.

1. Make sure that the configuration file :file:`/etc/my.cnf`
   on the first node (``percona1``) contains the following::

      [mysqld]

      datadir=/var/lib/mysql
      user=mysql

      # Path to Galera library
      wsrep_provider=/usr/lib64/galera4/libgalera_smm.so

      # Cluster connection URL contains the IPs of node#1, node#2 and node#3
      wsrep_cluster_address=gcomm://192.168.70.71,192.168.70.72,192.168.70.73

      # In order for Galera to work correctly binlog format should be ROW
      binlog_format=ROW

      # Using the MyISAM storage engine is not recommended.
      default_storage_engine=InnoDB

      # This InnoDB autoincrement locking mode is a requirement for Galera
      innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=2

      # Node 1 address
      wsrep_node_address=192.168.70.71

      # SST method
      wsrep_sst_method=xtrabackup-v2

      # Cluster name
      wsrep_cluster_name=my_centos_cluster

#. Start the first node with the following command:

   .. code-block:: text

      [root@percona1 ~]#  systemctl start mysql@bootstrap.service

   The previous command will start the cluster
   with initial :variable:`wsrep_cluster_address` variable
   set to ``gcomm://``.
   If the node or MySQL are restarted later,
   there will be no need to change the configuration file.

#. After the first node has been started,
   cluster status can be checked with the following command:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql> show status like 'wsrep%';
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | Variable_name              | Value                                |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | wsrep_local_state_uuid     | c2883338-834d-11e2-0800-03c9c68e41ec |
      ...
      | wsrep_local_state          | 4                                    |
      | wsrep_local_state_comment  | Synced                               |
      ...
      | wsrep_cluster_size         | 1                                    |
      | wsrep_cluster_status       | Primary                              |
      | wsrep_connected            | ON                                   |
      ...
      | wsrep_ready                | ON                                   |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      75 rows in set (0.00 sec)

   This output shows that the cluster has been successfully bootstrapped.

   Copy the automatically generated temporary password for the superuser account:

   .. code-block:: bash

      $ sudo grep 'temporary password' /var/log/mysqld.log

   Use this password to log in as root:

   .. code-block:: bash

      $ mysql -u root -p

   Change the password for the superuser account and log out. For example:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql> ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'r00tP@$$';
      Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.00 sec)

Step 3. Configuring the second node
===================================

1. Make sure that the configuration file :file:`/etc/my.cnf`
   on the second node (``percona2``) contains the following::

      [mysqld]

      datadir=/var/lib/mysql
      user=mysql

      # Path to Galera library
      wsrep_provider=/usr/lib64/galera4/libgalera_smm.so

      # Cluster connection URL contains IPs of node#1, node#2 and node#3
      wsrep_cluster_address=gcomm://192.168.70.71,192.168.70.72,192.168.70.73

      # In order for Galera to work correctly binlog format should be ROW
      binlog_format=ROW

      # Using the MyISAM storage engine is not recommended
      default_storage_engine=InnoDB

      # This InnoDB auto_increment locking mode is a requirement for Galera
      innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=2

      # Node 2 address
      wsrep_node_address=192.168.70.72

      # Cluster name
      wsrep_cluster_name=my_centos_cluster

      # SST method
      wsrep_sst_method=xtrabackup-v2

#. Start the second node with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

      [root@percona2 ~]# systemctl start mysql

#. After the server has been started,
   it should receive SST automatically.
   Cluster status can be checked on both nodes.
   The following is an example of status from the second node (``percona2``):

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql> show status like 'wsrep%';
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | Variable_name              | Value                                |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | wsrep_local_state_uuid     | c2883338-834d-11e2-0800-03c9c68e41ec |
      ...
      | wsrep_local_state          | 4                                    |
      | wsrep_local_state_comment  | Synced                               |
      ...
      | wsrep_cluster_size         | 2                                    |
      | wsrep_cluster_status       | Primary                              |
      | wsrep_connected            | ON                                   |
      ...
      | wsrep_ready                | ON                                   |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      40 rows in set (0.01 sec)

   This output shows that the new node has been successfully added to the cluster.

Step 4. Configuring the third node
==================================

1. Make sure that the MySQL configuration file :file:`/etc/my.cnf`
   on the third node (``percona3``) contains the following: ::

      [mysqld]

      datadir=/var/lib/mysql
      user=mysql

      # Path to Galera library
      wsrep_provider=/usr/lib64/galera4/libgalera_smm.so

      # Cluster connection URL contains IPs of node#1, node#2 and node#3
      wsrep_cluster_address=gcomm://192.168.70.71,192.168.70.72,192.168.70.73

      # In order for Galera to work correctly binlog format should be ROW
      binlog_format=ROW

      # Using the MyISAM storage engine is not recommended
      default_storage_engine=InnoDB

      # This InnoDB auto_increment locking mode is a requirement for Galera
      innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=2

      # Node #3 address
      wsrep_node_address=192.168.70.73

      # Cluster name
      wsrep_cluster_name=my_centos_cluster

      # SST method
      wsrep_sst_method=xtrabackup-v2

#. Start the third node with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

      [root@percona3 ~]# systemctl start mysql

#. After the server has been started,
   it should receive SST automatically.
   Cluster status can be checked on all three nodes.
   The following is an example of status from the third node (``percona3``):

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql> show status like 'wsrep%';
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | Variable_name              | Value                                |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      | wsrep_local_state_uuid     | c2883338-834d-11e2-0800-03c9c68e41ec |
      ...
      | wsrep_local_state          | 4                                    |
      | wsrep_local_state_comment  | Synced                               |
      ...
      | wsrep_cluster_size         | 3                                    |
      | wsrep_cluster_status       | Primary                              |
      | wsrep_connected            | ON                                   |
      ...
      | wsrep_ready                | ON                                   |
      +----------------------------+--------------------------------------+
      40 rows in set (0.01 sec)

   This output confirms that the third node has joined the cluster.

Testing replication
===================

To test replication, lets create a new database on second node,
create a table for that database on the third node,
and add some records to the table on the first node.

1. Create a new database on the second node:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql@percona2> CREATE DATABASE percona;
      Query OK, 1 row affected (0.01 sec)

#. Create a table on the third node:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql@percona3> USE percona;
      Database changed

      mysql@percona3> CREATE TABLE example (node_id INT PRIMARY KEY, node_name VARCHAR(30));
      Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.05 sec)

#. Insert records on the first node:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql@percona1> INSERT INTO percona.example VALUES (1, 'percona1');
      Query OK, 1 row affected (0.02 sec)

#. Retrieve all the rows from that table on the second node:

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql@percona2> SELECT * FROM percona.example;
      +---------+-----------+
      | node_id | node_name |
      +---------+-----------+
      |       1 | percona1  |
      +---------+-----------+
      1 row in set (0.00 sec)

This simple procedure should ensure that all nodes in the cluster
are synchronized and working as intended.

.. include:: ../.res/replace.txt
.. include:: ../.res/replace.opt.txt
