doc/source/howtos/garbd_howto.rst, before:

.. _garbd_howto:

============================
Setting up Galera Arbitrator
============================

`Galera Arbitrator
<http://galeracluster.com/documentation-webpages/arbitrator.html>` is a member
of the |Percona XtraDB Cluster| which is used for voting in
case you have a small number of servers (usually two) and don't want to add any
more resources. For example arbitrator can be set up on existing application
server or on load balancer.

Galera Arbitrator is a member of the cluster which participates in the voting,
but not in the actual replication (although it receives the same data as other
nodes).

This document will show how to add Galera Arbitrator node to a already set up
cluster.

.. note::

  For more information on how to set up a cluster you can read in the
  :ref:`ubuntu_howto` or :ref:`centos_howto` manuals.

Installation
============

*Galera Arbitrator* can be installed from Percona's repository by running:

.. code-block:: bash

  root@ubuntu:~# apt-get install percona-xtradb-cluster-garbd-5.7

on Debian/Ubuntu distributions, or:

.. code-block:: bash

  [root@centos ~]# yum install Percona-XtraDB-Cluster-garbd-57

on CentOS/RHEL distributions.

Configuration
=============

To configure *Galera Arbitrator* on *Ubuntu/Debian* you need to edit the
:file:`/etc/default/garbd` file. On *CentOS/RHEL* configuration can be found in
:file:`/etc/sysconfig/garb` file.

Configuration file should look like this after installation:

.. code-block:: text

  # Copyright (C) 2012 Codership Oy
  # This config file is to be sourced by garb service script.

  # REMOVE THIS AFTER CONFIGURATION

  # A comma-separated list of node addresses (address[:port]) in the cluster
  # GALERA_NODES=""

  # Galera cluster name, should be the same as on the rest of the nodes.
  # GALERA_GROUP=""

  # Optional Galera internal options string (e.g. SSL settings)
  # see http://galeracluster.com/documentation-webpages/galeraparameters.html
  # GALERA_OPTIONS=""

  # Log file for garbd. Optional, by default logs to syslog
  # Deprecated for CentOS7, use journalctl to query the log for garbd
  # LOG_FILE=""

To set it up you'll need to add the information about the cluster you've set
up. This example is using cluster information from the :ref:`ubuntu_howto`.

.. code-block:: text

  # Copyright (C) 2012 Codership Oy
  # This config file is to be sourced by garb service script.

  # A comma-separated list of node addresses (address[:port]) in the cluster
  GALERA_NODES="192.168.70.61:4567, 192.168.70.62:4567, 192.168.70.63:4567"

  # Galera cluster name, should be the same as on the rest of the nodes.
  GALERA_GROUP="my_ubuntu_cluster"

  # Optional Galera internal options string (e.g. SSL settings)
  # see http://galeracluster.com/documentation-webpages/galeraparameters.html
  # GALERA_OPTIONS=""

  # Log file for garbd. Optional, by default logs to syslog
  # Deprecated for CentOS7, use journalctl to query the log for garbd
  # LOG_FILE=""

.. note::

  Please note that you need to remove the ``# REMOVE THIS AFTER
  CONFIGURATION`` line before you can start the service.

You can now start the *Galera Arbitrator* daemon (``garbd``) by running:

* On Debian or Ubuntu:

.. code-block:: bash

  root@server:~# service garbd start
  [ ok ] Starting /usr/bin/garbd: :.

* On Red Hat Enterprise Linux or CentOS:

.. code-block:: bash

  root@server:~# service garb start
  [ ok ] Starting /usr/bin/garbd: :.

You can additionally check the ``arbitrator`` status by running:

* On Debian or Ubuntu:

.. code-block:: bash

  root@server:~# service garbd status
  [ ok ] garb is running.

* On Red Hat Enterprise Linux or CentOS:

.. code-block:: bash

  root@server:~# service garb status
  [ ok ] garb is running.

Commit message:

garbd is no longer included in flow control calculations

doc/source/howtos/garbd_howto.rst, after:

.. _garbd_howto:

============================
Setting up Galera Arbitrator
============================

`Galera Arbitrator
<http://galeracluster.com/documentation-webpages/arbitrator.html>`
is a member of |Percona XtraDB Cluster| that is used for voting
in case you have a small number of servers (usually two)
and don't want to add any more resources.
For example, arbitrator can be set up on existing application server
or on load balancer.

Galera Arbitrator is a member of the cluster that participates in the voting,
but not in actual replication
(although it receives the same data as other nodes).
Also, it is not included in flow control calculations.

This document will show how to add Galera Arbitrator node
to an existing cluster.

.. note::

  For more information on how to set up a cluster you can read in the
  :ref:`ubuntu_howto` or :ref:`centos_howto` manuals.

Installation
============

*Galera Arbitrator* can be installed from Percona's repository by running:

.. code-block:: bash

  root@ubuntu:~# apt-get install percona-xtradb-cluster-garbd-5.7

on Debian/Ubuntu distributions, or:

.. code-block:: bash

  [root@centos ~]# yum install Percona-XtraDB-Cluster-garbd-57

on CentOS/RHEL distributions.

Configuration
=============

To configure *Galera Arbitrator* on *Ubuntu/Debian* you need to edit the
:file:`/etc/default/garbd` file. On *CentOS/RHEL* configuration can be found in
:file:`/etc/sysconfig/garb` file.

Configuration file should look like this after installation:

.. code-block:: text

  # Copyright (C) 2012 Codership Oy
  # This config file is to be sourced by garb service script.

  # REMOVE THIS AFTER CONFIGURATION

  # A comma-separated list of node addresses (address[:port]) in the cluster
  # GALERA_NODES=""

  # Galera cluster name, should be the same as on the rest of the nodes.
  # GALERA_GROUP=""

  # Optional Galera internal options string (e.g. SSL settings)
  # see http://galeracluster.com/documentation-webpages/galeraparameters.html
  # GALERA_OPTIONS=""

  # Log file for garbd. Optional, by default logs to syslog
  # Deprecated for CentOS7, use journalctl to query the log for garbd
  # LOG_FILE=""

To set it up you'll need to add the information about the cluster you've set
up. This example is using cluster information from the :ref:`ubuntu_howto`.

.. code-block:: text

  # Copyright (C) 2012 Codership Oy
  # This config file is to be sourced by garb service script.

  # A comma-separated list of node addresses (address[:port]) in the cluster
  GALERA_NODES="192.168.70.61:4567, 192.168.70.62:4567, 192.168.70.63:4567"

  # Galera cluster name, should be the same as on the rest of the nodes.
  GALERA_GROUP="my_ubuntu_cluster"

  # Optional Galera internal options string (e.g. SSL settings)
  # see http://galeracluster.com/documentation-webpages/galeraparameters.html
  # GALERA_OPTIONS=""

  # Log file for garbd. Optional, by default logs to syslog
  # Deprecated for CentOS7, use journalctl to query the log for garbd
  # LOG_FILE=""

.. note::

  Please note that you need to remove the ``# REMOVE THIS AFTER
  CONFIGURATION`` line before you can start the service.

You can now start the *Galera Arbitrator* daemon (``garbd``) by running:

* On Debian or Ubuntu:

.. code-block:: bash

  root@server:~# service garbd start
  [ ok ] Starting /usr/bin/garbd: :.

* On Red Hat Enterprise Linux or CentOS:

.. code-block:: bash

  root@server:~# service garb start
  [ ok ] Starting /usr/bin/garbd: :.

You can additionally check the ``arbitrator`` status by running:

* On Debian or Ubuntu:

.. code-block:: bash

  root@server:~# service garbd status
  [ ok ] garb is running.

* On Red Hat Enterprise Linux or CentOS:

.. code-block:: bash

  root@server:~# service garb status
  [ ok ] garb is running.
