doc/source/howtos/haproxy.rst, before:

.. _haproxy:

================================================================================
Load balancing with |haproxy|
================================================================================

This manual describes how to configure HAProxy to work with |PXC|.

Start by installing |haproxy| on a :term:`node` that you intend to use
for load balancing. The operating systems that support |PXC| provide
the |pkg.haproxy| package and you can install it using the package manager.

Debian or Ubuntu
   .. code-block:: bash
      
      $ sudo apt update
      $ sudo apt install haproxy

Red Hat or CentOS:
   .. code-block:: bash
      
      $ sudo yum update
      $ sudo yum install haproxy

.. admonition:: Supported versions of |haproxy|

   The lowest supported version of |haproxy| is 1.4.20. 

To start |haproxy|, use the |app.haproxy| command. You may pass any
number of configuration parameters on the command line. To use a
configuration file, use the |opt.f| option.

.. code-block:: bash
   :emphasize-lines: 2,5,8


   $ # Passing one configuration file
   $ sudo haproxy -f haproxy-1.cfg

   $ # Passing multiple configuration files
   $ sudo haproxy -f haproxy-1.cfg haproxy-2.cfg

   $ # Passing a directory
   $ sudo haproxy -f conf-dir

You can pass the name of an existing configuration file or a
directory. |haproxy| includes all files with the *.cfg* extension in the the
supplied directory. Another way to pass multiple files is to use |opt.f|
multiple times.

.. seealso::

   |haproxy| Documentation:
      - `Managing HAProxy (including available options)
	<http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/management.html>`_
      - `More information about how to configure HAProxy
	<http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#2>`_

.. admonition:: Example of the configuration file for |haproxy|:

   .. code-block:: text
		   
      global
	   log 127.0.0.1   local0
           log 127.0.0.1   local1 notice
           maxconn 4096
           uid 99
           gid 99
           daemon
           #debug
           #quiet

      defaults
           log     global
           mode    http
           option  tcplog
           option  dontlognull
           retries 3
           redispatch
           maxconn 2000
           contimeout      5000
           clitimeout      50000
           srvtimeout      50000

      listen mysql-cluster 0.0.0.0:3306
           mode tcp
           balance roundrobin
           option mysql-check user root

           server db01 10.4.29.100:3306 check
           server db02 10.4.29.99:3306 check
           server db03 10.4.29.98:3306 check

   .. list-table:: Options set in the configuration file
      :header-rows: 1
      :widths: 15 85

      * - |haproxy| option (with links to |haproxy| documentation)
	- Description
      * - global
	- A section in the configuration file for process-wide parameters
      * - defaults
	- A section in the configuration file for default parameters for all
          other following sections
      * - listen
	- A section in the configuration file that defines a complete proxy with
          its frontend and backend parts combined in one section
      * - `balance <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4-balance>`_
	- Load balancing algorithm to be used in a backend
      * - `clitimeout <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4-clitimeout>`_
	- Set the maximum inactivity time on the client side
      * - `contimeout <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4-contimeout>`_
	- Set the maximum time to wait for a connection attempt to a server to succeed.
      * - `daemon <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#daemon>`_
	- Makes the process fork into background (recommended mode of operation)
      * - `gid <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#3.1-gid>`_
	- Changes the process' group ID to <number>
      * - `log <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#3.1-log>`_
	- Adds a global syslog server
      * - `maxconn <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#3.2-maxconn>`_
	- Sets the maximum per-process number of concurrent connections to <number>
      * - `mode <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4-mode>`_
	- Set the running mode or protocol of the instance
      * - `option dontlognull <option dontlognull>`_
	- Disable logging of null connections
      * - `option tcplog <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4.2-option%20tcplog>`_
	- Enable advanced logging of TCP connections with session state and timers
      * - `redispatch <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4.2-redispatch>`_
	- Enable or disable session redistribution in case of connection failure
      * - `retries <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4.2-retries>`_
	- Set the number of retries to perform on a server after a connection failure
      * - `server <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4.2-retries>`_
	- Declare a server in a backend
      * - `srvtimeout <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4.2-srvtimeout>`_
	- Set the maximum inactivity time on the server side
      * - `uid <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#3.1-uid>`_
	- Changes the process' user ID to <number>

With this configuration, HAProxy will balance the load between three nodes.
In this case, it only checks if ``mysqld`` listens on port 3306,
but it doesn't take into an account the state of the node.
So it could be sending queries to the node that has ``mysqld`` running
even if it's in ``JOINING`` or ``DISCONNECTED`` state.

To check the current status of a node we need a more complex check.
This idea was taken from `codership-team google groups
<https://groups.google.com/group/codership-team/browse_thread/thread/44ee59c8b9c458aa/98b47d41125cfae6>`_.

To implement this setup, you will need two scripts:

  *  **clustercheck** (located in :file:`/usr/local/bin`)
     and a config for ``xinetd``
  *  **mysqlchk** (located in :file:`/etc/xinetd.d`) on each node

Both scripts are available in binaries and source distributions of |PXC|.

Change the :file:`/etc/services` file
by adding the following line on each node::

        mysqlchk        9200/tcp                # mysqlchk

The following is an example of the HAProxy configuration file in this case::

        # this config needs haproxy-1.4.20

        global
                log 127.0.0.1   local0
                log 127.0.0.1   local1 notice
                maxconn 4096
                uid 99
                gid 99
                #daemon
                debug
                #quiet

        defaults
                log     global
                mode    http
                option  tcplog
                option  dontlognull
                retries 3
                redispatch
                maxconn 2000
                contimeout      5000
                clitimeout      50000
                srvtimeout      50000

        listen mysql-cluster 0.0.0.0:3306
            mode tcp
            balance roundrobin
            option  httpchk

            server db01 10.4.29.100:3306 check port 9200 inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3
            server db02 10.4.29.99:3306 check port 9200 inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3
            server db03 10.4.29.98:3306 check port 9200 inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3

.. important::

   In |PXC| |version|, the default authentication plugin is
   ``caching_sha2_password``. HAProxy does not support this authentication
   plugin. Create a mysql user using the ``mysql_native_password``
   authentication plugin.

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql> CREATE USER 'haproxy_user'@'%' IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password by '$3Kr$t';

   .. seealso::

      |MySQL| Documentation: CREATE USER statement
         https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/create-user.html

.. |haproxy| replace:: HAProxy
.. |pkg.haproxy| replace:: `haproxy`
.. |app.haproxy| replace:: ``haproxy``
.. |opt.f| replace:: ``-f``

Commit message:

PXC-3752 Tasks to convert to Netlify (5.7) (#1500)
modified:   Makefile
new file:   netlify.toml
new file:   requirements.txt
new file:   runtime.txt
modified:   source/add-node.rst
new file:   source/conf-netlify/conf.py
modified:   source/diagnostics/libcoredumper.rst
modified:   source/diagnostics/stacktrace.rst
modified:   source/howtos/crash-recovery.rst
modified:   source/howtos/proxysql-v2.rst
modified:   source/index.rst
deleted:    source/installation/post-installation.rst
modified:   source/management/data_at_rest_encryption.rst
deleted:    source/release-notes/Percona-Server-5.7.29-32.rst
deleted:    source/release-notes/Percona-Server-5.7.30-33.rst
modified:   source/security/encrypt-traffic.rst
modified:   source/wsrep-provider-index.rst

doc/source/howtos/haproxy.rst, after:

.. _haproxy:

================================================================================
Load balancing with HAProxy
================================================================================

This manual describes how to configure HAProxy to work with Percona XtraDB Cluster.

Start by installing HAProxy on a :term:`node` that you intend to use
for load balancing. The operating systems that support Percona XtraDB Cluster provide
the |pkg.haproxy| package and you can install it using the package manager.

Debian or Ubuntu
   .. code-block:: bash
      
      $ sudo apt update
      $ sudo apt install haproxy

Red Hat or CentOS:
   .. code-block:: bash
      
      $ sudo yum update
      $ sudo yum install haproxy

.. admonition:: Supported versions of HAProxy

   The lowest supported version of HAProxy is 1.4.20. 

To start HAProxy, use the |app.haproxy| command. You may pass any
number of configuration parameters on the command line. To use a
configuration file, use the |opt.f| option.

.. code-block:: bash
   :emphasize-lines: 2,5,8


   $ # Passing one configuration file
   $ sudo haproxy -f haproxy-1.cfg

   $ # Passing multiple configuration files
   $ sudo haproxy -f haproxy-1.cfg haproxy-2.cfg

   $ # Passing a directory
   $ sudo haproxy -f conf-dir

You can pass the name of an existing configuration file or a
directory. HAProxy includes all files with the *.cfg* extension in the the
supplied directory. Another way to pass multiple files is to use |opt.f|
multiple times.

.. seealso::

   HAProxy Documentation:
      - `Managing HAProxy (including available options)
	<http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/management.html>`_
      - `More information about how to configure HAProxy
	<http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#2>`_

.. admonition:: Example of the configuration file for HAProxy:

   .. code-block:: text
		   
      global
	   log 127.0.0.1   local0
           log 127.0.0.1   local1 notice
           maxconn 4096
           uid 99
           gid 99
           daemon
           #debug
           #quiet

      defaults
           log     global
           mode    http
           option  tcplog
           option  dontlognull
           retries 3
           redispatch
           maxconn 2000
           contimeout      5000
           clitimeout      50000
           srvtimeout      50000

      listen mysql-cluster 0.0.0.0:3306
           mode tcp
           balance roundrobin
           option mysql-check user root

           server db01 10.4.29.100:3306 check
           server db02 10.4.29.99:3306 check
           server db03 10.4.29.98:3306 check

   .. list-table:: Options set in the configuration file
      :header-rows: 1
      :widths: 15 85

      * - HAProxy option (with links to HAProxy documentation)
	- Description
      * - global
	- A section in the configuration file for process-wide parameters
      * - defaults
	- A section in the configuration file for default parameters for all
          other following sections
      * - listen
	- A section in the configuration file that defines a complete proxy with
          its frontend and backend parts combined in one section
      * - `balance <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4-balance>`_
	- Load balancing algorithm to be used in a backend
      * - `clitimeout <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4-clitimeout>`_
	- Set the maximum inactivity time on the client side
      * - `contimeout <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4-contimeout>`_
	- Set the maximum time to wait for a connection attempt to a server to succeed.
      * - `daemon <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#daemon>`_
	- Makes the process fork into background (recommended mode of operation)
      * - `gid <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#3.1-gid>`_
	- Changes the process' group ID to <number>
      * - `log <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#3.1-log>`_
	- Adds a global syslog server
      * - `maxconn <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#3.2-maxconn>`_
	- Sets the maximum per-process number of concurrent connections to <number>
      * - `mode <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4-mode>`_
	- Set the running mode or protocol of the instance
      * - `option dontlognull <option dontlognull>`_
	- Disable logging of null connections
      * - `option tcplog <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4.2-option%20tcplog>`_
	- Enable advanced logging of TCP connections with session state and timers
      * - `redispatch <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4.2-redispatch>`_
	- Enable or disable session redistribution in case of connection failure
      * - `retries <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4.2-retries>`_
	- Set the number of retries to perform on a server after a connection failure
      * - `server <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4.2-retries>`_
	- Declare a server in a backend
      * - `srvtimeout <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4.2-srvtimeout>`_
	- Set the maximum inactivity time on the server side
      * - `uid <http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#3.1-uid>`_
	- Changes the process' user ID to <number>

With this configuration, HAProxy will balance the load between three nodes.
In this case, it only checks if ``mysqld`` listens on port 3306,
but it doesn't take into an account the state of the node.
So it could be sending queries to the node that has ``mysqld`` running
even if it's in ``JOINING`` or ``DISCONNECTED`` state.

To check the current status of a node we need a more complex check.
This idea was taken from `codership-team google groups
<https://groups.google.com/group/codership-team/browse_thread/thread/44ee59c8b9c458aa/98b47d41125cfae6>`_.

To implement this setup, you will need two scripts:

  *  **clustercheck** (located in :file:`/usr/local/bin`)
     and a config for ``xinetd``
  *  **mysqlchk** (located in :file:`/etc/xinetd.d`) on each node

Both scripts are available in binaries and source distributions of Percona XtraDB Cluster.

Change the :file:`/etc/services` file
by adding the following line on each node::

        mysqlchk        9200/tcp                # mysqlchk

The following is an example of the HAProxy configuration file in this case::

        # this config needs haproxy-1.4.20

        global
                log 127.0.0.1   local0
                log 127.0.0.1   local1 notice
                maxconn 4096
                uid 99
                gid 99
                #daemon
                debug
                #quiet

        defaults
                log     global
                mode    http
                option  tcplog
                option  dontlognull
                retries 3
                redispatch
                maxconn 2000
                contimeout      5000
                clitimeout      50000
                srvtimeout      50000

        listen mysql-cluster 0.0.0.0:3306
            mode tcp
            balance roundrobin
            option  httpchk

            server db01 10.4.29.100:3306 check port 9200 inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3
            server db02 10.4.29.99:3306 check port 9200 inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3
            server db03 10.4.29.98:3306 check port 9200 inter 12000 rise 3 fall 3

.. important::

   In Percona XtraDB Cluster |version|, the default authentication plugin is
   ``caching_sha2_password``. HAProxy does not support this authentication
   plugin. Create a mysql user using the ``mysql_native_password``
   authentication plugin.

   .. code-block:: mysql

      mysql> CREATE USER 'haproxy_user'@'%' IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password by '$3Kr$t';

   .. seealso::

      MySQL Documentation: CREATE USER statement
         https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/create-user.html

.. HAProxy replace:: HAProxy
.. |pkg.haproxy| replace:: `haproxy`
.. |app.haproxy| replace:: ``haproxy``
.. |opt.f| replace:: ``-f``
